# Assignment-4

Assignment 4: Neural Networks for CS 3600 (Intro to AI) in the Spring 2025 semester!

This repository contains all the files you'll need to get started on Assignment 4. This assignment will have you implement 3 neural networks. The first will be to solve the XOR problem, using modules that you will implement from scratch! You'll then move on to using PyTorch, an industry-standard library for AI and ML, to solve the MNIST problem for digit classification, and another binary classification problem with a provided dataset. This assignment is split into two parts. Part A is worth 50 points, and Part B is worth 50 points. The overall assignment, combining the two parts for a total of 100 points, will be worth 12.5% of your final grade for Assignment 4.

> You are not permitted to fork this repository, as it will create a public repository that you cannot change the visibility of. If you wish to store your code in a GitHub repository, download the source code from this repository, and upload it to a new, private repository on GitHub Enterprise or your personal GitHub account.

## Part 1 - MicroTorch
In this part of the assignment, you will be implementing MicroTorch, an extremely simplified version of PyTorch. You'll implement modules and layers to use to ultimately create a neural network to solve the XOR problem, a classic problem in AI. The goal of this part of the assignment is to get you familiar with the concepts of neural networks, and how they are truly implemented. You'll be implementing a regression and classification model for this problem. 

Your score for this part of the assignment will be out of 50 points. 35 points will be for successfully implementing all the modules and layers for MicroTorch, and 15 points will be for correctly implementing a regression and classification model to solve the XOR problem. We've provided you sanity checks that will test your modules and XOR networks on a singular seed. To ensure correctness and consistency, you should test your modules on a variety of different inputs and seeds (feel free to cross-verify your outputs with PyTorch or TensorFlow) and make sure your models are able to solve the XOR problem. You should also test your models on a variety of different seeds (though the inputs won't change - it's a standard truth table!). 

## Part 2 - PyTorch
In this part of the assignment, you'll be using PyTorch to build two neural networks. The first will be to classify handwritten digits from the MNIST dataset. The second will be to classify a binary classification problem with a provided dataset. You'll be using PyTorch to build and train your models, and you'll be using the provided datasets to test your models.

Your score for this part of the assignment will be out of 50 points. 5 points will be for successfully implementing helper functions to load and prepare input data for training and evaluation using PyTorch. Your score will be visible for this in Gradesope - there are no hidden tests for this. 15 points will be for successfully implementing an MNIST network that classifies handwritten digits at a 95% accuracy. Your score will be visible for this in Gradescope - there are no hidden tests for this. 20 points will be for successfully implementing a binary classification network to classify poisonous samples of Rig Juice at a 95% accuracy. We will provide a sanity check for this that uses the same scale as the hidden test, which will assess your network on a portion of the same dataset that we have already partitioned. 
